This is an excellent proposal.  Recent years have seen enormous progress in a number of relevant areas:

 There has been an explosion of activity in formal verification of mathematical proofs, a large part of which is based on the Lean proof assistant, which can also be used for formal verification of non-mathematical software.  Most of the relevant proof assistants are based on various different flavours of type theory, and the differences between these flavours are of great importance for the proposed project.  The most well-established systems such as Lean and Coq have a relatively simple type theory; more experimental systems such as Narya have more elaborate foundations that are more aligned with the goals of this project.
Recent progress in Artificial Intelligence is highly relevant, although everything is changing so quickly that it is hard to make confident predictions about exactly how this will play out.  At the time of writing, AI can often formalise existing proofs into code that can be checked by Lean, although the resulting code is not always well-organised or efficient.  It can also generate some kinds of proofs by itself, either in natural language or in Lean. My guess is that AI tools will be good at generating the kind of proofs or counterexamples required for the proposed project, certainly in Lean and hopefully also in other systems.  This is highly beneficial because proofs in Higher Category Theory have a tendency to be long, hard to check, and prone to subtle errors.  There has been intense interest in mathematical applications of AI from the main AI companies as well as from academics.  It may be that a window is opening for very rapid advances.
There has been a great deal of progress in Homotopy Theory and Algebraic Topology organised around Lurie's framework of (∞,1)-categories.  As a closely related development, there has also been extensive progress in Homotopy Type Theory, much of which has been formalised in Agda or other, more experimental, proof assistants. 
Although most work has focussed on  (∞,1)-categories, there are also many important mathematical applications of (∞,n)-categories for larger n, such as the work of Lurie and others on the Cobordism Hypothesis, or the theory of Gestalten recently proposed by Scholze.  The difference between (∞,1)-categories and (∞,n)-categories is closely related to the difference between undirected and directed type theories which forms the core of this proposal.
There are various different approaches to (∞,1)-categories, but there are now well-understood ways to compare them and see that they are essentially the same.  There are also various different approaches to (∞,n)-categories or directed type theories, but here everything is much less clear.  The project proposal surveys a body of existing work and makes detailed proposals for some new approaches.   I am confident that the stated deliverables would be very valuable if achieved.  The proposed approaches seem promising, but I would need a higher level of detailed knowledge to make a confident judgement about that.

Altenkirch is clearly the most qualified person in the UK to lead a project of this type.  I am less familiar with the two co-leads, but the information about their track records in the application is also impressive.  Of the project partners, it would be hard to find anyone internationally who is better qualified than Shulman and Riehl, and Schreiber is also extremely knowledgeable and highly competent.  I am not familiar with the others and have not attempted an assessment.

There are no ethical issues to consider apart from the usual ones of appropriate allocation of credit, support for RAs and so on.  Under "responsible research" one could consider open access to papers and software; the proposed arrangements for this are good.

The costings for staff, and for travel and subsistence, are standard and reasonable.  I make no comment on the other headings.

Expert review score

6 / 6
